---
title: "Combating Crime with Predictive Policing: Stopping a Crime Wave in its Tracks"
author: "Special Constable Ryan Prox, Vancouver Police Department"
date: 2018-02-07T18:00:00-08:00
draft: false
---

**Speaker:** [Special Constable Ryan Prox](http://www.math.ubc.ca/~wetton/temp/ProxBio.pdf) (Vancouver Police Department)
**Location:** SFU Harbour centre (talk: room 1700; reception: room 1305)  
**Talk:** 18:00 &ndash; 19:00  
**Reception:** 19:00 &ndash; 20:30  
**Details:** Visit the [event listing on the IAM website](http://www.iam.ubc.ca/combating-crime-predictive-policing-stopping-crime-wave-its-tracks) to obtain more information.
**Registration:** [Link for registration](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdxjzuVL15QdOlII-WC2hdXYXi2Y_unZPi3FKfQbMERbX3M3g/viewform)

#### Description

The Vancouver Police Department is known worldwide for its pioneering work in
the field of intelligence-led policing, and is the first police service in
Canada to deploy a machine-learning predictive system directly on police mobile
computers. With a focus on high-end analytics, combined with competitive
technology, the Department has achieved stunning results in reducing crime
rates. In the first quarter of 2016, the City of Vancouver encountered the
highest number of residential burglaries ever recorded. Following the
implementation of predictive technology and the consequent deployment of
resources based on the forecasting, this trend reversed and the following
quarter saw the lowest residential burglaries ever on record. What set this
deployment apart from previous attempts at predictive policing is the way the
technology was used. Innovative policing practices, combined with an advanced
evaluative methodology that leveraged ArcGIS Desktop model testing and Geocortex
technology, validated the system and outcomes under real-world conditions where
the most successful strategies were advanced, and less successful approaches
were abandoned. This learning process resulted in a highly effective crime
prevention strategy that reversed a record increase in burglaries for the City.
