+++
author = "Luke Bornn"
title = "Possession Sketches: Mapping NBA Strategies"
description = ""
date = "2017-05-01T15:00:00-00:00"

+++


**Speaker:** [Luke Bornn](http://www.lukebornn.com/) (SFU)  
**Location:** [Earth Sciences Building](https://goo.gl/maps/KAebF92kpEA2) ESB 2012, 3pm -- 4pm.

#### Abstract

We present Possession Sketches, a new machine learning method for organizing
and exploring a database of basketball player-tracks. Our method organizes
basketball possessions by offensive structure. We first develop a model for
populating a dictionary of short, repeated, and spatially registered
actions. Each action corresponds to an interpretable type of player
movement. We examine statistical patterns in these actions, and show how they
can be used to describe individual player behavior. Leveraging this vocabulary
of actions, we develop a hierarchical model that describes interactions between
players. Our approach draws on the topic-modeling literature, extending Latent
Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) through a novel representation of player movement
data which uses techniques common in animation and video game design. We show
that our model is able to group together possessions with similar offensive
structure, allowing for efficient search and exploration of the entire database
of player-tracking data. We show that our model finds repeated offensive
structure in teams (e.g. strategy), providing a much more sophisticated, yet
interpretable lens into basketball player-tracking data.
