---
title: 'The global art market as a social graph'
author: Tomas Tokar 
date: 2020-03-26
publishdate: 2020-02-25
---
**Speakers:** Tomas Tokar, [Wondeur AI](https://wondeur.ai/)

**Location:** Avigilon Corporation Atrium, [555 Robson St, Vancouver](https://goo.gl/maps/6mHjCucr32sv4jv97) (Robson at Seymour)

**Date:** March 26, 2020

**Registration and Networking:** 18:00 

**Talk:** 18:30 

**Abstract:** 
The global art market as a social graph

The art market has remained practically inaccessible from common econometric tools. It's a market where expertise and intuition drive decisions, where data is scarce and where explainability of prices is a major problem for all stakeholders including insurers, wealth managers, museums, gallerists, and artists. As a consequence, most of the 1.9 Trillions of art assets are idle and illiquid. However, the onset of novel technologies, including big data analytics and artificial intelligence gives our team at Wondeur AI an opportunity to explore the art market in an unprecedented way.

We will describe how deep learning on multipartite dynamic graph has been key to understand the dynamics of value creation and bias in the art world.


**Biography:**
[Tomas Tokar](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tomas-tokar-80932355?originalSubdomain=ca), Chief Scientist at Wondeur AI 

Tomas obtained his PhD in Biophysics from P. J. Safarik University in Kosice, Slovakia. His thesis focused on mathematical modelling and computational simulations of molecular signalling pathways of apoptosis – biological phenomenon often referred to as programmed cell death or, more colloquially, “cellular suicide”. 

After completing his PhD., Tomas did four years postdoctoral fellowship at the Princes Margaret Cancer Centre in Toronto - the largest cancer research and treatment facility in Canada and one of the top five cancer research centres in the world. In his research he utilized machine learning to predict molecular interaction targets of human microRNAs. 

Tomas was then appointed a research associate position at Krembil Research Institute, in Toronto. His research objective was to develop an artificial intelligence for prediction of clinical events in arthritis patients. 

He also worked as a data scientist, analyzing agrobotanical and meteorological data in order to develop algorithms for optimization of the irrigation and fertilization practices. 


**About Wondeur**
We are a team of senior researchers (MIT, UofT) capturing massive amounts of data and using AI to track the dynamics of value creation and biases for $1.9 Trillion of art assets.

Wondeur is currently used by leading insurers, wealth management firms and museums and is backed by icons in AI and fintech in Europe and North America.


**Registration:** 
This event is free, though registration is required. Details will be made available soon.
