---
title: Tackling Big Climate Data in the Cloud
author: Joe Hamman
date: 2020-01-23
publishdate: 2019-11-06
---
**Speakers:** Joe Hamman

**Location:** Avigilon Corporation Atrium, [555 Robson St, Vancouver](https://goo.gl/maps/6mHjCucr32sv4jv97) (Robson at Seymour)

**Date:** Jan. 23, 2020

**Registration & Networking:** 18:00 

**Talk:** 18:30 

**Abstract:** 
Researchers in the climate sciences are increasingly overwhelmed with the volume and complexity of data produced by climate models, satellite platforms, and in-situ observations. At a time when rapid synthesis and actionable discovery are needed most, many scientists are struggling to keep pace. In this talk, we explore how cloud computing is accelerating the pace of discovery across the geosciences, and how community efforts centered around open source software and open data are revolutionizing the way data driven discovery is done.

**Biography:**
Joe Hamman is a scientist at the U.S. National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR). His research focuses on the development of data science tools and methods to better understand the impacts of climate change. He is an active contributor to numerous open source software projects. He holds a MS and a PhD from the University of Washington, a BS from the University of Arizona, and a PE in Washington State.




**Registration:** 
This event is free, though registration is required. Please register through Eventbrite [here](https://www.eventbrite.ca/e/bc-data-colloquium-series-january-23-joe-hamman-ncar-tickets-84802529649).
